---
layout: post
title: An Illustrative Story About His Father (A Sea Story)
---
In the very early morning, near the geographical center line of the Gulf of Mexico, a 300 meter container ship is sailing West towards the Texas Coast in an easy motion, rolling gently in a long Southerly swell. A waxing crescent moon sits low above the horizon, reflecting the sun’s light down onto the sea and creating contrast between the dark troughs of the long swell bands and their lighter crests. Low scattered clouds block the light reflected by the moon in some places, and as the the ship carves through the warm gulf water it moves alternately through areas spotlighted by the moon, and then through large, jagged shadows of clouds.

On the ship’s darkened bridge, near the bank of tall windows that extend across the width of the forward end, two men are standing in their own shadows, both looking out across the rows of lashed shipping containers covering the ship’s deck toward the sea and the easily discernible horizon. A strong, predictable vibration created by the ship’s massive slow speed diesel engine rattles up through their bodies, and through everything on the bridge around them. Behind the men, dozens of tiny, colored indicator lamps for various electronic sensors and interfaces flicker in the darkness, like wild, glowing eyes at the edge of a forest at night.

On the port side the Mate, a tall, trim man in his early thirties, is leaning backwards against the forward edge of the bridge’s chart table, his feet pressed against the bulkhead beneath the windows in front of him. For most of the past two hours, besides plotting the ship’s hourly position and occasionally checking the two Radar displays, the Mate has been in this same position, looking out towards the horizon and pondering something that he just learned Faulkner said: “the only thing worth writing about is the human heart in conflict with itself.” Rolling and vibrating in the darkness, high above the moonlit sea, he is thinking about conflicts of the heart, and of his heart.

On the starboard side of the bridge, the Mate’s Lookout, a full generation older than the Mate, leans forward, his face inches from the window in front of him, both hands resting on the wooden railing beneath the glass. From the Mate’s position on the bridge, his Lookout’s face and his heavy, unhealthy frame are discernible as a dark outline - the outline of a man who has spent many watches at sea. The lookout has been standing in this position for most of the watch, focusing his eyes on the low clouds, tracking their movement relative to the ship, and thinking about his wife. Her right lung was recently removed. Unable to work, she is now alone in their small house in the Poconos, and the Lookout the family's sole breadwinner. He focuses on her helplessness, and inevitably, on his own.

For two hours the two men do not speak, but stand alone on the bridges of their own ships, their eyes focused on the same play of light and darkness upon the sea before them, but their roaming thoughts divergent, uncontemplated mysteries to each other.
As the vessel proceeds through its roll, port side to its starboard side and back again, over and over, the ship groans loudly and rhythmically. With every roll, hundreds of heavy steel shipping containers, stacked five high on the ship’s deck, attempt to slide off into the sea, but are halted by heavy metal lashing rods securing the containers to steel plates covering the ship’s deck and cargo holds. As the ship rolls to port, the containers shift subtly, but with great force - pop….pop….pop pop pop - and the rods stiffen and strain and groan to keep the cargo aboard. When the ship reaches its angle of maximum roll it pauses, then begins to right itself, and the groan reverses like a record played backwards…over and over as the ship plunges on.

On the bridge, the Mate’s thoughts move towards an application of the concept of a human heart being in conflict with itself. Of what that might look like, of the way his own heart is in conflict. On the starboard side, the Lookout, exhausted by thoughts of his ailing wife, begins to search for a pleasant memory, and then becomes almost painfully aware that no words have been spoken on the bridge in what seems to the Lookout a very long time.

Sometimes long silences on the bridge at night remind the Lookout of his childhood in Pennsylvania, and of the Quaker faith in which he was raised, but long since abandoned. It seems to him now as if the two men have been sitting silently in a Quaker meetinghouse, waiting, and waiting, in silence, for the spirit to descend.
And suddenly the the spirit does descend upon the room, and upon the Lookout, and he begins to speak, loudly enough to be heard over the vibrating and groaning of the ship, in the direction of the Mate on the port side of the bridge.

“Yeahhhh, Mate. Yeah I know exactly what you meant earlier about a woman that can’t be sexually satisfied by just one man there Mate. I sure do.”

The Lookout pauses, waiting for the Mate to acknowledge the provocative confession that he has just made, but the Mate says nothing. The Mate knows that the Lookout is about to launch into a long, unpredictable dialogue, and he knows that no acknowledgement or encouragement is required, or even prudent at this point. After a few rolls, the Lookout continues.

“Or can’t be sexually satisfied at ALL. My 1st ex wife was like that. She was crazy, man. She was a REAL nympho. I’d make her come 10 times but it was like, it was like she never really got OFF you know? Later on I figured out that her sexual fantasy was to be fucked by 50 guys at once ya know. And to have a bunch of women in there too. She was really into women, but I didn’t know that. I didn’t find that out for a couple of years after we got married. I didn’t know shit man, but I knew something was wrong. What do you know when you’re 19 years old and you’ve spent your whole life in the Poconos? I knocked her up and then we got married right out of high school and all that. That’s just what you did back then ya know.”

The Lookout briefly reflected on what he had just said - what he had confessed - and on what he was going to confess next. The Mate continued to stare out at the sea, and remained silent. He did not know where this story was going, but it seemed promising. There were rhythms to these four hour watches, and patterns, but each watch was also unique. Sometimes you were the confessor, and sometimes you were the confessee…

“And then she started saying how we needed to find other couples to hang out with you know, like real insistent. And I’m thinking like oh, she wants friends to hang out with. And then somehow she finds this couple from town and we start hanging out with them, going to dinner and doing drugs together and stuff. And at this point I was on the meth pretty bad. And one day this couple is over at the house and I’ve been on meth for three days and the wife, this girl you know, she says she’s going to the store to buy some cigarettes. Well I haven’t slept in 3 days and I’m tweaking so I go outside to split some logs. And I’m out there splitting logs and I look in the window to the house and see my old lady in there grab-assing with this fucking guy you know. And I am about to lose my fucking mind. So I go in the front door and I’m holding an ax and I’m looking at them like ‘what the fuck?’ and the guy just splits you know, just right out the back door. And then I’m standing there in front of my old lady with this ax and I'm tweaking and I just started feeling real scared. And I knew that I was real fucked up and that I needed to be away from her and I jumped in my truck and took off with the ax.”

The Mate utters a long, loud “Daaaamn” designed to convey to the Lookout that he is now fully engaged with the story and in the moment with him.

“Well, my cousin Ida who’s a few years older than me, she lived a couple miles away and so I drive over there and she calms me down and then I sleep for a couple days and in the mean time my old lady split with this guy and his wife and my daughter and they ended up living some kind of fucking free love fantasy threesome thing for 6 months or so and that’s when she really got into the meth bad and has just never really recovered…I mean she ended up doing 5 years in jail. Jesus I wonder how much pussy she ate in that fucking jail man…God only knows.

“Well now my cousin Ida lives out in Northern California, she’s a real hippie. Like, she lives out in the woods and makes a living selling dream weavers. Not little cheap dream weavers, though, ya know? Hers are these beautiful, intricate things she makes by hand. She does alright for herself selling these things. Man I’ve got some stories about her. She was wild! Ida is who got me into motorcycles and that’s how I became a biker.

“When I was a teenager in the Poconos she started dating this guy named Mole. Guy’s fucking name was Mole you believe that? It was his biker name. He was a Hells Angel. So she was a little older than me and she started dating this biker and he had a “69” tattoo on his arm ya know. And me and my brother are like “hey what’s that!” Hehe. Well we thought this guy Mole was so cool and we wanted to be bikers. Well, this is around the time that the movie Easy Rider came out. You know with Dennis Hopper and Jack Nicholson and Peter Fonda. That’s my favorite movie man.

“And so I was about 13 or so and my brother a couple years older and we beg my Dad to take us to the drive-in to see it. And my Dad didn’t like that me and my brother were getting interested in bikes and bikers and all that and he hated all the hippie shit that Ida was into. But he didn’t know what the movie was about and he agreed to take us ya know. And we’re at the drive in, me my brother Ida and my Dad and the movie starts and the first thing is these two hippie bikers smuggling cocaine from Mexico and my Dad is like ‘nope, we’re leaving’ and he’s trying to leave but we all beg him to stay and so he gives up and he just sits there the whole movie with this really pissed off look on his face and his arms crossed. I mean, he was a redneck from South Louisiana. He hated this hippie and biker stuff.

“Well the whole movie is full of hippies and then there’s the scene where they’re all dosed on acid and they’re dancing around the graveyard in New Orleans and I look over at my Dad and he is about to fucking explode. I’d never seen him like that before. But for the 3 of us this is the greatest thing we’ve ever seen. It’s just magical you know. And then at the very end of the movie these murderous rednecks come up by the bikers in a truck and blow them away with shotguns and the last scene is their bikes on fire in the road and these guys are dead. And I can’t fucking believe it. I look at my brother and Ida and they can’t believe it and and we’re just devastated. It was about the death of the whole Hippie movement or whatever I guess.

“But then I look over at my Dad and he is smiling ear to ear man. I mean he is so happy and he says that the end made the whole movie worth it and that he can’t believe he had actually wanted to leave! He was in such a good mood that those rednecks blew away the bikers that he took us out for ice cream after the movie. Hehehe.

“Yeah Mate, that was my Dad! That was my Dad, man. I loved that guy.”

-G.O.
January 2015  
200 nm East of Bermuda
