---
type: post
title: If You Could Not Fail
---
a couple of months ago i was talking to my Mom and i was like "waahhhh wahhhh i don't know what i want to be when i grow up! i don't know what i'm supposed to do with my life wahhh wahhh waaa 🍼👶🍼👶!!!"
And my mom goes "stop crying you little bitch!" so i stopped crying and then mom says, "if you knew you could do anything and that you wouldn't fail, what would you do?" I don't know where it came from but after 5 or 10 seconds of silence i said "ahh i don't know, probably start a political party." After a couple seconds of silence my mom starts laughing. But then she says, "welllll, ok, we definitely need one of those! do it!" Then i didn't think about it again until a couple days ago the idea came back. And when it came back there was actually a shape to it, like i had been working on the idea subconsciously for months. And the shape of it is the shape of a tech startup, run like a startup, and the party is a consumer technology product. I told a friend, he liked it, and now we're working on a business plan. It's super early, but some principles are that it's totally transparent in terms of finances, policies, etc. There will be a Membership fee to join, maybe $25 per year, and the total focus will be on getting the party's presidential candidate on all 50 state ballots (& D.C) for the 2020 presidential election. The members will create the party's platform and policies through crowdsourcing and voting, everything will be public, anyone can propose something, etc. We'll lay the foundations, then recruit really good candidates to run in an online primary in 2019, maybe/hopefully people who are already famous, maybe an athlete or a movie star (no reality show stars). instead of buying ads the party will invest in people who create effective social content, like the mobile videos buzzfeed and other sites like that make. some rough numbers are: 100,000 members @ $25 per year = $2.5mm per year, which = hiring ~25 full time employees, then we use these people to help us recruit and organize an army of volunteers. Who is interested in the idea? Think it's possible? Tag a friend.
-g.o.
