---
type: post
title: Breakfast with an American Expat in Todos Santos, Mexico
---
I meet some interesting American expats down here in Mexico. These people in turn meet Giovanni. The other day I was ordering breakfast at this restaurant in todos santos that's popular with the expats and this 50ish American guy just kinda drifts towards me. It was weird. I had this feeling that he really wanted to talk to me, or someone, so i let him talk. Turns out he was desperate, and 2 hours later we were still talking. He became estranged from his wife and kids in california a few years ago and went through a rough patch where he didn't have a job or health insurance, which sucked when he was diagnosed with a very serious and complex heart problem, which then led to heart failure and then organ failure. He finally gave up navigating the uninsured healthcare maze and drove down to this town because he thought it would be a nice, peaceful place to die anonymously. It was only supposed to take a few weeks, but the dying dragged on for several months, at which point he meets this beautiful, vibrant mexican woman in her late 30s with a questionable past (and maybe present), but he doesn't care about that because she's cool and he's on his way out. Guess what happens next? Yep, she convinces him to live, and gives him something to live for. They get married, she gets her papers, and then 9 cardiologists and some creative financing later he pays cash for a heart procedure in Guadalajara. After a year of recovery he's healed, his life is finally back on track after a decade off the rails, when one day she just does a walk off and leaves him, vanishes. It's funny how life works. Now he's heartbroken and desperate, he's heard that she's prostituting herself for money, and he believes that her eternal soul is in danger. He can't live without her, doesn't want to live without her, doesn't want to live at all...again. He drives around around at night in other towns looking for her, asking about her in bars, hearing rumors, feeling her presence, being lost. Too many clichés for you? For him too, but it's all true. She's a ghost, losing her eternal soul, healed his heart then broke it again, and 2 hours of therapy is enough for me...

-g.o.
