---
layout: post
title: One Last Ocean Crossing
---
Tied up in Barcelona I slipped ashore into a Barcelona night with a warm Mediterranean breeze at my back and found myself on Las Ramblas with the pickpockets and the clowns, touts and tourists.  Trade a refugee a Euro for a can of cerveza Estrella and then he asks me if I want to buy hashish.  I did, but I passed and then I saw that body walking by, the heels and all of her black black curls and all I could think to say was, “Hola.”  It just came out, but she turned around, smiled and said “Hola,” which never happens with a girl like that, but this happened.  We got to talking and she told me she was a mexican Princess from Guadalajara.  I told her I was a gringo sailor and I had to get back to my ship before it sailed.  “Take my number,” she said, “do you have Whatsapp?”  I got the number and got back to my ship before we sailed away and she kept on walking, men staring and stopping for that body and the song it made. I sent messages to her and she responded and then after 3 months at the end of a long, desperate voyage she sent me a picture of that brown body, 23 years old, bare breasts fallen back slightly, top of her legs crossed over the prize and all of it against a white sheet in her bedroom in the parents’ house where she lived.  And she attached a note that just said, “Gringo, when you get off that ship come see me in Mexico.”  I had one more ocean crossing to go until I was free and flush again, England to America, 12 cloudy days rolling across the Atlantic, 12 days of staring at the high interiors of the sea, 12 days of avoiding contemplation of the bottom, no ships or land or life just water, foam and clouds, and ALL I could think about, all I could see out those big bridge windows was that brown skin and all I could think about was between those Royal Mexican thighs. I stared at the ocean for years and years and years and all I thought about was her.  
